# Google Places Enricher

This tool makes it easy to get data from Google Places API from any geographical area. It also helps to enrich it with other categories of interest – including from different systems (Yelp categories are available by default).

## 💻 Prereqs:

To get started make sure you meet the following requirements:

* Python environment - Version 3.7.4+

## ⚙️ Install:

To install `Google Places Enricher` you need to clone the following repository:

```
git clone git@github.com:FerGubert/google_places_enricher.git
```

Create the `.env` file with your Google Places API key, as indicated in the `.env.example`.

After that you need to install the environment:

```
pip install .
```

## 🚀 Run:

This tool provides three different tasks, the task you want to run must be informed as an argument when executing the main file. Below are the details of each task.

### Tasks

#### 1-Coordinates Calculation

This task generates a CSV file with the geographic coordinates of a rectangular area according to a predetermined step in meters.

First, it is necessary to set the variables described below in the file `config.py`:

* NORTHEAST_LAT, NORTHEAST_LON: indicates the extreme northeast of the area.
* SOUTHWEST_LAT, SOUTHWEST_LON: indicates the extreme southwest of the area.
* RADIUS: several coordinates will be created within a specified area. The RADIUS parameter indicates the reach range for each of those coordinates.

Then you must inform the argument that indicates this task when executing the file `main.py`:

```
python src/main.py --task coordinates
```

The calculated coordinates will be available in `data/output/lat_lon_calculated.csv`.

#### 2-Retrieve Google Places Data

This task performs requests to the Google places API according to the geographic coordinates defined in the input file and a predetermined radius. It retrieves places information according to the categories defined in the input file, outputting the results in a CSV file. 

First, it is necessary to set the variable RADIUS described below in the file `config.py`.

It is also necessary to provide in `data/input` a CSV file called `lat_lon.csv` with the geographic coordinates that will be used in the request – note that the file generated by the task Coordinates Calculation could be used. 

If you want to enrich the data obtained from the Google Places API with more specific categories, a CSV file with the desired categories must be made available in the same input directory. The categories of the fourth hierarchical level of the Yelp base are already available in `/data/input/categories_request.csv`.

Then you must inform the argument that indicates this task when executing the file `main.py`:

```
python src/main.py --task request
```

The processed data will be available in `data/output/establishments.csv`.

#### 3-Matching Categories

This task explores the information in the branch of the category in the hierarchy where it is located – if available. For instance, it creates Yelp sentences using the category hierarchical levels names; for Google Places it creates the establishment sentences using the Google categories and the enrichment categories. The records of establishments with their sentences are exported in a CSV file. Then, for each sentence of the establishment, it retrieves the Yelp sentence with the highest semantic textual similarity, making these matchings available with their respective scores in a CSV file.

To execute this flow, the `hierarchical_yelp_categories.csv` file is used, containing the 4 hierarchical levels of the Yelp categories, available in `data/input`. It is also necessary to have available in `data/output` the csv file with the establishments retrieved from the Google places API, without changing the column schema and the name `establishments.csv`. 

Then it is necessary to inform the argument that indicates this flow when executing the file `main.py`:

```
python src/main.py --task match
```

The data of the establishments with their sentences will be available in `data/output/establishments_sentences.csv` and the match of the sentences of the establishments with the Yelp sentences, as well as the score, will be available in `data/output/matching_category_sentences.csv`.

## 🤝 Members:

Who are committers:

<b>Fernanda R Gubert</b>
